My first contact with the open movement was when my older sister was an
undergrad at a public university in Brazil. She was learning to use scientific
papers for her assignments and she showed me
[SciELO](https://www.scielo.org/en/), a publishing platform from Latin America,
with scientific papers free to access. By the time I was an undergrad, I learned
that this was not the case for the majority of the scientific literature, which
are behind a paywall and are not even remotelly accessible to a Brazilian
student like I was. As we learn how to be scholars, we find out very early on
that producing new knowledge is very expensive, and that most of us have limited
access to resources to support it. I decided then that I should get involved in
what I learned later was called the "open movement", in the hope that students
and professionals from the next generations would face less barriers to access
research resources.  

By sharing resources and products of the research cycle we wouldn't need to
invest more to re-do something that was already done, and we could more easily
build on top of other people's knowledge to create a global network of human
knowledge. Just like knowledge mobilization, Open Scholarship also enhances
inclusion by promoting knowledge exchanges between equity-seeking,
underrepresented or excluded groups, and by ["reducing inequalities in access to
scientific development, infrastructures and capabilities among different
countries and regions"](https://doi.org/10.54677/MNMH8546).

### What does "open" mean?

The Open Scholarship practices optimizes the impact of research, and it includes
concepts such as open access, open education, and open data, each of them
characterizing a specific aspect of sharing knowledge, but also flourishing as
interdependent concepts. Whenever you come across the term "open", it means that
someone has thought about how other people could (or could not) re-use that
product and has expressed that through an open license document with legal
value. It also means that values related to equity, accessibility, inclusion and
diversity are somewhow playing a role in how this product was designed, produced
and shared. "Open" does not necessarily mean "free", but it often means that
you can re-use, remix or redistribute something, giving the proper attribution.

When someone collects data for a specific research project, they start a data
lifecycle that can end with the publication of a paper, or get a "stretch" when
it is deposited with a license on a repository. This allows other researchers to
skip the process of collecting that data all over again, [wasting
resources](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspb.2022.0938) and
slowing down the production of new knowledge. 

Sharing data also helps to make your research trustworthy, because anyone can
reproduce the analyses and check if the results are true. It's important to
notice that data sharing is a practice that does not overwrite the right to
privacy, and very often human data cannot be shared publicly. There are ways to
account for that and still be part of the open movement, as long as the
researchers are fully transparent about their processes. If you have 20 minutes
and want to reflect on data sharing, I recommend watching [this
documentary](https://vimeo.com/819068030).

### A movement for change

The open movement empowers people to overcome the limitations of resource
sharing in knowledge and culture production and usage. With that vision in mind,
the Institute for Neuroscience and Neurotechnology at the Simon Fraser
University is leading a revolution to make it possible for every member of the
SFU community to implement open practices in their academic routines. Our role
will be to connect the open scholarship initiatives already in place at SFU
(such as the open access and open data hubs at the Library, the Public Knowledge
Project at Publishing, and the Open Educational Resources office), grassroots
movements and the Knowledge Mobilization Hub to promote community-led events and
programs to support students, faculty and staff to design their scholarly
products under the "open lens".   

There will be many opportunities to contribute and collaborate to this movement!
We will need community leaders to help us organize events and workshops,
to help us spread the word and to mentor other community members. If you want to
keep an eye on what we're doing, sign up to our newsletter [here](https://secure.campaigner.com/CSB/Public/Form.aspx?fid=1882702&ac=gifk).

Just like the KM Hub, we want to do more with what we know "by intentionally
co-creating, disseminating, and implementing research". If our dreams are to
come true, in 10 years the whole SFU community will think of open scholarship as
the only way that they know how to do things. It will not be a matter of resources or
infrastructure â€“ we will all be working together to share what we have the
privilege to produce for the benefit of all. 